hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here with
the inaugural episode of what I hope
with the support of your esteemed
listenership will be a long-running
podcast program in today's episode I
bring you the first of several excerpts
from the writings of mr. Robert fortune
made between 1847 and 1857 in the u.s.
these were the years from pulp to pierce
presidents 11 to 14
Robert fortune I spoke of at length in
the history of tea part eight episode he
was a very astute and capable botanist
who went to China in the summer of 1843
if you recall from several China history
podcast episodes the first of many
pooping donkey Agha or unequal treaties
was signed in August 1842
this of course was the Treaty of Nanjing
now this treaty among other things all
of which were not particularly good for
China open up a total of five ports to
trade with Britain and then later to
everyone else these five port cities
served as the backdrops for all of
Robert Fortunes travels between 1843 and
1855 in today's passage I wanted to
introduce you to a book he wrote as soon
as he got back from China in May 1846
Robert fortune in his early 30s had
taken on this job from the London
horticultural society his mission was to
go explore all these newly open and
accessible places in China and bring
back as many samples seeds drawings and
information as possible and the reason
he was able to do this was because of
the Treaty of Nanjing prior to this
treaty that ended the First Opium War no
foreigners were allowed outside of Macau
or Guangzhou or cantide as it was known
Macau and Canton were the only options
to carry out legal trade with China
there were many restrictions on top of
that as well about you know where you
could go in Canton but not anymore
for new treaty ports were
opened the trade in addition to Canton
these were shaman Foucault Ningbo and
Shanghai open to foreigners at last well
you couldn't stray too far from the
actual treaty port area but at least you
were able to get inside to check it out
so fortune took on this job his
wanderings proved to be a smashing
success and he dispatched several
shipments of plant samples back to
London in his book the one I'm gonna
read from today was a big hit and later
on it caught the eye the British East
India Company
they hired fortune later on to go back
to China and steal the secrets of tea
steal the seeds plants manufacturing
implements secret manufacturing
processes how they essentially took a
single camellia sinensis leaf and turn
that leaf into a hundred different kinds
of flavorful teas all of it we'll look
at some of that later on
Robert fortune wasn't a bad writer and
he had some fascinating observations as
Westerner seeing the country during the
time of the duck Wong and shin fung
emperors I'm going to present to you
excerpts from his first book three years
wanderings in the northern provinces of
China including a visit to the tea silk
and cotton countries with an account of
the agriculture and horticulture of the
Chinese wow that's a mouthful fortune
mentions his travels as being through
the northern provinces of China actually
he never got north of su Jo Chang su
province which is hardly northern China
but up till then all of China for the
Westerners have been limited to Canton
so relative to Canton Guangdong province
he was in the north in 1847 Robert
fortune wrote when the news of the peace
with China first reached England in the
autumn of 1842 I obtained the
appointment of botanical collector to
the Horticultural Society of London and
proceeded to China in that capacity
early in the spring of the following
year in laying my travels and their
results
for the public I beg to say at the
commencement that I have no intention of
writing or making a book on China by
this I mean such books as have often
been issued from the press professing to
give a faithful and true account to the
history of the Chinese from the earliest
ages and their earliest kings down to
dal Kwang in the present day of the arts
sciences religion and laws and the
social and moral condition of the people
whose authors with true Chinese ole
accustomed stand man fully by what the
writers of other days have told them and
faithfully hand down to posterity by the
aid of the scissors and the pen all the
exaggerations and absurdities which have
ever been written on China and the
Chinese this celebrated country has been
long looked upon as a kind of fairyland
by the nations of the Western world its
position on the globe is so remote that
few at least in former days had an
opportunity of seeing and judging for
themselves and besides those few were
confined within the most narrow limits
at Canton and Macau the very outskirts
of the kingdom and far removed from the
central parts or the seat of government
even the embassies of Lord McCartney and
Lord Amherst although they went as far
as the Capitol were so fettered and
watched by the jealous Chinese that they
saw little more than their friends who
remained at Canton under these
circumstances much that was gleaned from
the Chinese themselves relating to their
country was of the most exaggerated
description if not entirely fabulous
they from the highest Mandarin down to
the meanest beggar are filled with the
most conceited notions of their own
importance and power and fancy that no
people however civilized in no country
however powerful are for one moment to
be compared with them as an instance of
this I may mention the following when
the first steamer visited the coast of
China the Chinese and Canton and Macau
did not exhibit the least surprised but
merely said have got plenty all same
inside meaning that such things were
quite common in the interior of their
country
moreover they cannot appreciate
statistical enquiries but always fancy
we have some secret motive for making
them or that the subject cannot be of
the slightest importance either to
ourselves or others and consequently do
not trouble themselves about obtaining
correct information
I've been often much annoyed with this
propensity of theirs during my travels
in the country and have had frequently
to travel many a weary mile merely
because they did not think it was worth
their while to give me correct
information in fact latterly I made a
practice of disbelieving everything they
told me until I had an opportunity of
seeing and judging for myself shut out
from the country and having no means of
getting information on which we could
depend for independent of Chinese
statements the accounts written by the
Jesuits were in many instances grossly
exaggerated it is not to be wondered at
if the works in our language were more
remarkable for the exhibition of the
imaginative power of their authors than
for the facts concerning China and the
Chinese we were in the position of
little children who gaze with admiration
and wonder at a penny peep show in a
fair or market place at home we look
with magnifying eyes on everything
Chinese and fancied for the time at
least that what we saw was certainly
real but the same children who look with
Wonder upon the scenes of Trafalgar and
Waterloo when the curtain falls and
their penny worth of sights is passed by
find that instead of being amongst those
striking scenes which have just passed
in review before their eyes they are
only after all in the market place of
their native town so it is with children
of a larger growth this mystery served
the purpose of the Chinese so long as it
lasted and although we perhaps did not
give them credit for all to which they
pretended at least we gave them much
more than they really deserved viewing
the subject in this light we have little
difficulty in accounting for the false
coloring which has been given to every
picture drawn by authors who have
written on this country and who have
extolled to the skies her perfection in
the arts in agriculture and horticulture
the fertility of the soil the industry
of the people and the excellence of her
government and laws but the curtain
which had been drawn around the
celestial country for ages has now been
rent asunder
and instead of viewing an enchanted
fairyland we find after all that China's
just like other countries doubtless the
Chinese were in that half civilized
state in which they are now at a very
early period and when the now polish
nations of the West were yet rude
savages it is long since they discovered
the art of making the beautiful
porcelain lacquer ware and silks which
have for centuries been so much admired
in Europe but these very facts their
civilised condition their advancement in
the arts and even their discovering a
magnetic power in nature which they
could convert into a compass for the
purpose of navigation instead of telling
in their favor as an active and
intelligent people do the very reverse
when we consider what they might have
been now and what they really are the
great proportion of the northern Chinese
seem to be in a sleepy or dreaming state
from which it is difficult to awake them
when a foreigner at any of the northern
ports goes into a shop the whole place
inside and out is immediately crowded
with Chinese who gaze at him with a sort
of stupid dreaming eye and it is
difficult to say whether they really see
him or not or whether they have been
drawn there by some strange mesmeric
influence over which they have no
control from am quite sure that we're it
possible for the stranger to slip out of
his clothes and leave a block standing
in his place these Chinese would still
continue to gaze on and never know the
difference the conduct of the Chinese
peasants during the war was very
remarkable in this respect I have been
told by some of the military officers
that when the whole fleet of sailing
vessels and steamers went up the Yangtze
Jung in 1842 many of the agricultural
laborers on the banks of the river used
to hold up their heads for a few seconds
and look with the kind of stupid gaze
upon our noble fleet and then quietly
resume their labors as if the thing was
only an everyday occurrence and they had
seen it a thousand times before when the
Medusa steamer went up the Shanghai
River for several miles above the city
the river became so narrow that they had
some difficulty in finding a place wide
enough to allow the steamer to come
round a peasant was standing on the
banks smoking his pipe and looking on
with the most
perfect unconcern when the helm being
put down the little vessel and coming
round shot right across the stream and
came in contact with the bank just under
the very feet of the the shock
was of course considerable and the man
who all at once seemed to awake from a
trance set off in the utmost terror like
an arrow across the fields without once
looking behind him and as Captain Hewitt
who related the story remarked for
anything he knew the man was running
until this day many of the Chinese are
of course very different characters from
those I have just described and our
isactiv men as you bind in any part of
the world but the above are striking
features in the character of the
inhabitants of the northern parts of the
country which I have had an opportunity
of visiting in the knowledge and
practice of Agriculture although the
Chinese may be in advance of other
Eastern nations they are not for a
moment to be compared with the civilized
nations of the West perhaps more
nonsense has been written upon this
subject than upon any other connected
with China we can only account for it by
supposing the writers to have been
entirely unacquainted with the subject
and led away by the fancies and
prejudices above alluded to how
ridiculous for example for them to speak
in such glowing terms of the fertility
of the land when we bear in mind that
they judged from what they saw at Canton
and Macau had they seen the glorious
scenery amongst the mountains at tian
tong near Ningbo or the rich plain of
shanghai then indeed they might have
written in the most glowing terms of the
fertility of Chinese soil but what terms
could they have found to describe it
after giving the barren soil of the
South such a character although it is
not my intention to devote any part of
these pages to the history and
government of the Chinese I must still
notice in passing what has been so often
said about the perfection of their
government and laws and here - I must
differ from those who have such high
notions of the Chinese in these respects
I think no country can be well governed
where the government is powerless and
has not the means of punishing those who
break the laws China is weak in this
respect
compared with European nations and the
only thing which keeps the country
together is the quiet and inoffensive
character of the people
everybody who has traveled in China
knows that wherever the natives are
enterprising and bold
they set the government at defiance
whenever it suits their purpose to do so
for example what can the government do
with the natives on the coast of Fujian
a bold and lawless race choose to
disobey its mandates positively nothing
even further north where the mandarins
are more powerful in Shanghai for
example the Cheng Cho men as they are
called often fight pitched battles with
firearms in the streets and an open day
and the mandarins with all their
soldiers at their backs dare not to
interfere
surely no government worth anything
would tolerate the state of things the
system of apprehension and punishment is
so curious and so characteristic of the
Chinese government then it must not omit
to mention it the belligerents are
allowed to fight as long and as fiercely
as they choose and the soldiers never
interfere but when the weakest side is
overpowered and probably a number of
lives lost in the affray they come down
in great force and seize and carry off
to punishment the most defenseless and
in circumstances of this kind they are
not over particular about seizing the
most riotous or those most implicated in
the disturbances provided those they
seize are the weakest at least able to
resist such conduct in the Chinese
government I have been an eyewitness to
again and again in the north of China
more particularly in Shanghai what
should we think of such a state of
things existed in England and yet this
is a specimen of the government which
has been considered so perfect and which
has been so highly eulogized there can
be no doubt that the Chinese Empire
arrived at its highest state of
perfection many years ago and since then
it has rather been retrograding than
advancing many of the northern cities
evidently once in the most flourishing
condition are now in a state of decay or
in ruins the pagodas which crown the
distant hills are crumbling to pieces
and apparently are seldom repaired the
spacious temples are no longer as they
used to be in former days even the
celebrated temples on potage on an
island near Jo Shan - which as to
Jerusalem of old the natives came from
afar to worship show all the
of having seen better days it is very
true that these are heathen temples and
the good and every land will hail with
delight the day when these shall give
way to others which shall be erected to
the true God but nevertheless such as
the fact that these places are not
supported as they used to be and from
this I conclude that the Chinese as a
nation are retrograding rather than
advancing although I have considered it
necessary to expose in this manner the
prejudiced opinions which have been from
time to time given out to the world by
authors on China I am far from having
any prejudice against the Chinese people
on the contrary in many respects they
stand high in my estimation during the
last three years I have been continually
among them wandering over and among
their hills dining in their houses and
sleeping in their temples and from this
experience I do not hesitate and
pronouncing them a very different race
from what they are generally supposed to
be the natives of the southern towns and
all along the coast at least as far
north as judge young richly deserved the
bad character which everyone gives them
being remarkable for their hatred to
foreigners and conceited notions of
their own importance besides abounding
and characters of the very worst
description who are nothing less than
thieves and pirates but the character of
the Chinese nation was not suffered from
a partial view of this kind for it must
be recollected that in every country the
worst and most lawless characters are
amongst those who inhabit sea port towns
and who come in contact with natives of
other countries and unfortunately we
must confess that European nations have
contributed their share to make these
people what they really are in the north
of China and more particularly inland
the natives are entirely different
there are doubtless bad characters and
thieves amongst them too but generally
the traveler is not exposed to insult
and the natives are quiet civil and
obliging and although they are not
entitled to the credit of being equal to
much less in advance of the nations of
the West and science in the arts in
government or in the laws yet they are
certainly considerably in advance of the
Hindus Malays and other nations who
inhabit
central and western portions of Asia
besides the manners and customs of the
people and the strange formation of the
country are indeed striking when viewed
by the strangers I the pagodas like
monuments to departed greatness towering
on the hills the strange dresses and
long tales of the men and the small
deformed feet of the women added to
which this is the land of tea a beverage
which in the eyes of English men is
enough to immortalize any country had it
nothing else besides but I must again
assert that the great secret of the
popularity of China and the Chinese
people lies in the manner in which
foreigners allowed themselves to be
treated in former days and in the
mystery with which the Chinese from
principle enveloped everything relating
to their country on the 6th of July 1843
after a passage of four months from
England I had the first view of the
shores of China and although I had often
heard of the bare and unproductive Hills
of the celebrated country I certainly
was not prepared to find them so barren
as they really were viewed from the sea
they have everywhere a scorched
appearance with rocks of granite and red
clay showing all over their surface the
trees are few and stunted in their
growth being perfectly useless for
anything but firewood the purpose to
which they are generally applied in this
part of the country was this then the
flower Leigh land the land of camellias
azaleas and roses of which I had heard
so much in England what a contrast
between this scenery in the hills and
valleys of Java where I had been only a
few days before there from the seashore
to the tops of the highest hills the
whole is clothed with the most luxurious
vegetation and when the Sun rises in the
morning are when his last rays scatter
themselves over the lovely landscape
deepening the tints of the foliage of
all hues the scene presented to the view
may well be called grand and sublime but
as the poet sings tis the land of the
East the climb of the Sun after a few
hours pleasant sailing amongst the
islands we at last
reached the beautiful bay of Hong Kong
and anchored opposite to the new town of
Victoria Hong Kong Bay is one of the
finest which I have ever seen it is 8 to
10 miles in length and the irregular and
breadth in some places two and another
six miles wide having excellent
Anchorage all over it and perfectly free
from hidden dangers
it is completely sheltered by the
mountains of Hong Kong on the south and
by those of the mainland of China on the
opposite shore landlocked in fact on all
sides so that the shipping can ride out
the heaviest gales with perfect safety
the new town of Victoria is situated on
the north side of the island
along the shores of this splendid bay
with the mountain chain rising
precipitously and majestically behind it
when viewed from the sea in 1843 it had
a curious and irregular appearance but
as the plan of the town becomes more
developed and better houses are built it
will really be a very pretty place when
I left China at the end of December 1845
it had made most rapid progress new
houses and even new streets had risen as
if by magic some noble government
buildings were nearly completed to be
used as barracks for the soldiers
excellent in substantial houses were
erected or in the course of erection for
the merchants and a large Chinese town
had been built to the westward for the
principal part of Chinese population a
beautiful road called the Queens Road
has been formed along the shore for
several miles and this was lined with
excellent houses and many very good
shops many of the Chinese shops are
little inferior to those in Canton and
certainly equal to what used to be in
Macau in fact a very large proportion of
the Macao shopkeepers have removed their
establishments to Hong Kong the former
place being now useless for the purpose
of trade since the English left it the
bazaar or market is also a most
excellent one here we find all the
natural productions of China which are
brought regularly from the mainland such
as the fruits and vegetables indigenous
to the country fowls ducks teal
quails and pheasants meat of all kinds
and infect every luxury which the native
or foreigners can possibly require
besides these English potatoes
Greenpeace and several other kinds of
foreign vegetables are plentiful at
almost all seasons of the year the only
other Chinese towns on the island of any
notes beside the new one just noticed
are on the south side and used to be
called little Hong Kong and checked you
these names have been changed later by
the governor Sir J Davis into Stanley
and Aberdeen they are merrily fishing
towns but the government always keeps up
a military station at the ladder which
renders it of some importance Hong Kong
is one of the largest islands near the
mouth of the Canton River it is about
eight miles from east to west and the
widest part of it is not more than six
miles but it is very irregular some
parts being only three miles and breadth
and the land jutting out here and there
forming a succession of headlands and
bays imagine then an island considerably
longer than it is broad perfectly
mountainous and sloping in a rugged
manner to the water's edge having here
and there deep ravines almost in equal
distances along the coast which extend
from the tops of the mountains down to
the sea deepening and widening in their
course there are immense blocks of
granite in these ravines which have
either been bared by the rapid currents
of water and its descent during the
rains or which have tumbled into them
from the sides of the mountains at some
former period of time the water in these
ravines is abundant and excellent and
hence the poetical name which the
Chinese have given our Island Hong Kong
or more properly hong kong the island of
fragrant streams during wet season fir
it rains and torrents then these little
streams swell with the augmentation of
fresh water and rush down from the
mountains with a velocity which sweeps
everything before them it may 1845 one
of these storms of thunder and rain
visited Victoria and the effects
produced by it were perfectly
astonishing houses were undermined roads
made at a great expense only a few
months before were swept away drains
were
stokin and many of the bridges and other
public works rendered perfectly useless
the Hong Kong Register
thus notices the storm to which I allude
quote the damage was very great both to
the recently formed roads and to many
buildings in the course of erection and
had the violence of the brain continued
an hour or two longer many houses must
have been undermined and destroyed as it
was much individual inconvenience has
been sustained about five o'clock the
whole of Queens Road from the entrance
to the large bazaar to the marketplace
was completely flooded to the depth of
from two to four feet all the streets
leading upwards to the hill served as
feeders to this lake in Peel Street
particularly the torrent rushed along
bearing everything before it and the
street still resembles a dried-up water
course covered with stones and wrecks of
buildings the passages from the Queens
Road to the sea were all full the one
leading through Chu noms Hong for
several hours presented the appearance
of a rapid River and many of the houses
on each side were only saved from the
flood by mud walls hastily raised at six
o'clock the rain moderated but for some
time after the road was quite impassable
a attempting to Ford the stream
rushing down daegil our street was borne
off his feet but saved himself by
catching hold of the frame of a match
shed the drain lightly formed could not
carry off the water which committed
great devastation flooding a new house
in its vicinity to the depth of nearly
three feet and destroying some new walls
all the open drains and the upper
streets have suffered many are entirely
destroyed leaving scarcely a trace of
the street a stream from a distant water
course flowed along the road above the
bungalow occupied by the Attorney
General and descending with great fury
upon the roof of one of his out offices
carried away a great part of it in many
places the Queen's Road had been covered
with soil and sand to the depth of more
than two feet and nearly all the cross
drains are choked up the bridge at the
commissariat has been carried away and
that in the long night Rong has also
disappeared several lives were lost by
the fall of a house in which some
Chinese resided and it is said the
stream at full
burst upon a mat Hut and which were a
number of coolies employed upon the new
road three saved themselves in a tree
but many more were missing and they're
supposed to have been carried out to see
there is very little flat ground on the
island capable of being brought under
cultivation indeed the only tract of any
extent is the one night wrong or as the
English call it the Happy Valley about
two miles east from the town and even
that is not more than twenty or thirty
acres and extent there are several other
small plots of ground or the bottom of
the hills and some few terrorist patches
amongst them but the whole is a very
trifling extent in former times the
Chinese used to cultivate crops of rice
and vegetables in the long night song
Valley but the place proved to be very
unhealthy and the government supposing
that the malaria might proceed from the
water necessary to bring the crops to
maturity prohibited the natives from
cultivating them and said about draining
the land from this description it will
be seen that our settlement on this
island is entirely dependent on the
dominions of his celestial Majesty for
supplies which he of course can cut off
when he pleases shortly after the
present governor Sir John Francis Davis
took the helm of affairs in China he
with the advice of the Legislative
Council of Hong Kong passed a law for
registering all the inhabitants of the
island English and Chinese the latter of
course being under the rule of her
Britannic Majesty's representative the
Chinese population ever jealous of
foreigners fancied there was more in
this than met the eye and that it was
done for the purpose of squeezing them
and they actually rebelled against the
decree a meeting of all the comprar
doors another great man took place and
one of the results was that the supplies
were stopped for several days everything
Stood Still the coolies would not work
the boats would not bring provisions in
fact the Chinese were in a fair way of
starving the Legislative Council of Hong
Kong into making better laws and they
succeeded at last in making them alter
the celebrated Registration Act into one
more agreeable to their feelings from
the tops of the mountains the view is
grand and imposing in the extreme
mountain is seen rising above mountain
rugged bare in and while
the elevation of the highest being
nearly 2,000 feet the sea as far as the
eye can reach is studded with islands of
the same character as Hong Kong on one
side our beautiful Bay lies beneath us
crowded with ships and boats and on the
other the far extending waters of the
China Sea the climate of Hong Kong is
far from being agreeable and up to the
present time has proved very unhealthy
both to Europeans and to the native
Chinese during the months of July and
August
the hottest in the year the maximum heat
shown by my thermometer was 94
Fahrenheit and the minimum in the same
was 80 degrees the difference between
the heat of the day and night is
generally about 10 degrees in winter the
thermometer sometimes sinks as low as
the freezing point but this is a rare
occurrence even in the midst of winter
when the Sun shines it is scarcely
possible to walk out without the shelter
of an umbrella and if anyone has the
hardihood to attempt it he invariably
suffers for his folly the air is so dry
that one can scarcely breathe and there
was no shade to break the force of the
almost vertical rays of the Sun yet
other times in winter the wind blows
cold and cutting from the north and
fires are necessary in the houses indeed
at all seasons the climate is liable to
sudden changes of temperature
there are numerous fine quarrys of
Granite's along the coast from which the
stone has been obtained for the new town
of Victoria much of the granite in
different parts of the island is of a
state of decay and some ingenious person
said fancy that - this may be ascribed
the prevalence of that malignant disease
called the Hong Kong fever which has
baffled medical skill and carried
hundreds to the tomb the autumnal months
August September and October are most
unhealthy in 1843 when I first visited
the island it was in a lamentable
condition a place called the West Point
where some barracks stood and which was
to all appearances healthy as any other
proved fatal to the greater part of a
detachment of our troops quartered there
the mortality was such that Lord Sultan
then commander-in-chief was obliged to
remove the wretched remnant and ordered
the bear
to be pulled down before leaving China I
had occasion to visit this spot of
ground the grave of many a brave soldier
a fine road leading round the island for
the recreation and pleasure of the
inhabitants passed through the place
where they had been buried many of their
coffins were exposed to the vulgar gaze
and the bones of the poor fellows lay
scattered about on the highway no one
could find fault with the road having
been made there but it was necessary to
uncover the coffins common decency
required that they should be buried
again the one notch on that happy valley
already noticed was another most
unhealthy spot one of my fellow
passengers mr. Dyer and his partner who
came out with high hopes of succeeding
in business under the new regulations
went to live in this place we're in a
few days they were seized with fever and
in a few more they had gone to that
undiscovered country from whose Bourn no
traveler returns in other parts of the
island which were at that time
considered more healthy fever prevailed
to a great extent among those who were
carried off and whose death caused the
greatest regret where major pottinger
and the Honourable JR Morrison Chinese
interpreter son of the celebrated dr.
Morrison the former had been only out
for a few days and was on the point of
returning home with dispatches for the
government many other instances might be
mentioned but these are sufficient to
show the deplorable condition of our new
settlement at this time and so malignant
and fatal was this disease that few who
were seized ever recovered the only
advice the doctors gave was at once to
leave the island and fly to Macao the
south side of hong kong was at this time
considered much more healthy than the
north where the new town of victoria was
being built the prevailing opinion
amongst the inhabitants then was that
the town ought to have been placed on
the south side which had the advantage
of being exposed to the refreshing
breeze of the southwest monsoon from
which the north was in a great measure
shut out by the range of mountains this
ferry however was soon disproved for
latterly the troops stationed at
aberdeen on the south side have suffered
more than those in victoria my own
observations has led me to the following
much of the sickness and mortality
doubtless proceeded from the imperfect
construction and dampness of the houses
in which our people were obliged to live
when the colony was first formed and a
great deal may be also attributed to
exposure to the fierce and burning rays
of the Hong Kong Sun all the travellers
in the East with whom I had any
conversation on the subject agreed that
there was a fierceness and
oppressiveness and the sun's rays here
which they never experienced in any
other part of the tropics even under the
line they have no doubt that this is
caused by the want of luxuriant
vegetation and the consequent reflection
of the sun's rays the bare and barren
rocks and soil reflect every ray that
strikes them there are no trees or
bushes to afford shade or to decompose
the carbonic acid and render it fit for
the respiration of man and thus the ear
wants that peculiar softness which makes
it so agreeable even in hot tropical
climates if these are the principal
causes of the mortality in our new
colony the remedy will of course be
apparent to everyone already a great
improvement has been taken in the houses
of the merchants and in the barracks of
the soldiers and the results have been
most satisfactory but the colonists must
not stop at this stage and their
improvements let the government and the
inhabitants use every means in their
power to clothe the hillsides in and
around the town with a healthy
vegetation let them plant trees and
shrubs by the roadsides and gardens and
in every place available for such
purposes and then I have no doubt that
Victoria will be quite as healthy as
McHale
no one can approve of the selection of
Hong Kong is a British settlement but
that part of the business being
irremediable we must make the most of
our bargain the native population in
Victoria consists of shopkeepers
tradesmen servants boat people and
coolies and altogether for me most model
II group unfortunately there was no
inducement for the respectable Chinese
merchants to take up his quarters there
and until that takes place we shall
always have the worst set of people in
the country the town swarms with thieves
and robbers who are only kept under by
the strong armed police lately
established previous to this scarcely a
dark night
without someone having his house broken
into by an armed band and all that was
valuable being carried off or destroyed
these audacious Rascals did not except
to the governor even for one night
government house was robbed and another
time they actually stole the arms of the
centuries these armed bands sometimes a
hundred strong disappeared as they came
in in a most marvellous manner and no
one seemed to know whence they came or
whither they went such attacks are
fortunately now of rare occurrence in
all my wanderings on the island and also
on the mainland hereabouts
I found the inhabitants harmless and
civil I visited their Glen's and their
mountains their villages and small towns
and from all the intercourse I have had
with them I am bound to give them this
character but perhaps the secret of all
was that I had nothing for them to take
for I was always most careful not to
have anything valuable about me and my
clothes after scrambling amongst the
rocks and brushwood we're not very
tempting even to a since the
island of Hong Kong has been ceded to
England the foreign population in it has
been much changed in former days there
were only a few mercantile
establishments all known to each other
and generally most upright and honorable
men now people from all countries from
England the Sydney flocked to the
celestial country and form a very motley
group viewed as a place of trade that
fear Hong Kong will be a failure the
great export and import trade of
southern China must necessarily be
carried on at Canton as heretofore there
being at present at least no inducement
to bring that trade to Hong Kong it will
nevertheless be a place of great
importance to many of the merchants more
particularly to those engaged in the
opium trade and will in fact be the
headquarters of all houses who have
business on the coast from the
facilities of gaining early information
regarding the state of the English and
Indian markets now that steam
communication has been established
between this country and the south of
China moreover with all its faults its
importance may yet be acknowledged in
the event of another war our countrymen
cannot have so entirely forgotten the
kind of protection which used to be
afforded them by the Portuguese at Macau
as to make them wish to be put in the
same circumstances again and it is of no
little importance
know that their lives and property are
safe under the British flag which has
braved a thousand years the battle in
the breeze
I left the pleasant bay of Hong Kong in
the 23rd of August and sailed for Xiamen
as we came out of the harbour by the
western entrance and rounded the south
side of the island I had an excellent
view of the little town of Chuck G and
the military station established there
the town or village firt is but a small
place is pleasantly situated on the
shores of a deep bay and fully exposed
to the refreshing breezes of the
southwest monsoon and is generally
considered much more healthy than the
town of Victoria on the opposite side of
the island it was now my luck to be
seized with that dreadful fever which I
have already noticed as so prevalent in
our new settlement at this time I lay in
a very precarious state for several days
without the means of procuring medical
aid but the sea air probably did more
for me than anything else and under
Providence was the means of saving my
life after encountering a strong Gale of
wind which we wrote out in a deep bay
for three days we at last reached the
opium station of nonno nonno is the name
of a small island about halfway between
Hong Kong and Xiamen and is well known
as one of the stations where the
contraband trade and opium is carried on
between foreign vessels and the Chinese
smugglers at this time I was fresh from
England and full of all the notions
which we form there of the sacredness of
the Chinese Empire I then thought that
although I might perhaps get a view of
the celestial country no barbarian feat
would be allowed to pollute the sacred
soil great was my surprise and pleasure
when I found the captains of vessels
wandering about all over the island
unmolested they had made roads to a
considerable extent and had built a
cottage as a sort of smoking Lodge when
they landed in the evenings for
recreation they had also erected stables
and had small Chinese ponies for riding
all over the island in fact they seemed
quite the Lords of the soil and were not
subjected to the least annoyance from
the natives hundreds of Chinamen
gathered round this spot where they have
erected huts and a bazaar or market for
supplying the shipping and what appears
not a little strange to European eyes
whenever the ships move
move to any other Anchorage in the
vicinity the whole of the inhabitants
houses market and all move along with
them so easily do these individuals
change about from one place to another
one of the captains informed me that it
was in contemplation to leave that
particular spot shortly and that if I
happen to visit it a day or two after
this event all the motley groups would
be gone and the place entirely deserted
nor was this a statement at all
exaggerated for in my return a few
months afterwards the change of station
had taken place and had a vestige of the
little village remained men women and
children with their huts boats and all
that belonged to them had followed the
ships and had again squatted opposite to
them on the beach the different modes
which these people have of obtaining a
livelihood are really astonishing with
one of these I was particularly struck
there are boats of all kinds engaged in
bringing off stock such as ducks fowls
and other things to the ships but one
kind consisted only of five or six thick
pieces of bamboo fastened together in
the form of a raft and with this the
poor fellows paddled along with two oars
the water washing all over the raft and
frequently all over its contents the
fowls which some of these people brought
off were in a most pitiable plight and
certainly could not exist long in such a
state a few months after this time a
complaint was made to Sir Henry
pottinger then governor of Hong Kong by
the Chinese authorities regarding this
state of affairs at nan out it set forth
that subjects of her Britannic majesty
had built houses made roads and in fact
we're making another Hong Kong at the
island of naath which according to the
treaty they had no right to do the old
Chinese Admiral who had shut his eyes to
all these irregular proceedings had been
removed and another remarkable for his
prowess and bravery in the suppression
of piracy on that coast had been
appointed to this station and it was the
latter with whom the complaint
originated Sir Henry Pottenger
acknowledged the irregularity of the
proceeding but blame the Chinese
authorities for allowing it for such a
length of time and claimed a period of
six months to give time for the sale or
removal of any articles the English
might have on shore this was agreed to
on the part of the chain
and now comes the part of the business
which so nicely illustrates the peculiar
character of the Chinese when a visited
na now in October 1845 I made enquiry
regarding the state of affairs onshore
and found that a little civility and a
few bottles of cherry brandy had
wonderfully softened the good old
Admiral and that a communication had
been received stating that some little
show of compliance was actually
necessary
they must pull down the house for
example but the stables and horses might
remain as before and the captain's might
go on taking their accustomed exercise
and Recreation on the island as they had
been in the habit of doing it was even
hinted that no objection would be made
to their putting up another cottage if
they chose to do so in the meantime a
fine account had doubtless gone to
Peking showing how the barbarians had
been driven from the island which they
had dared to set foot upon perhaps a
battle had been fought and a few of our
ships and their crews taken and
destroyed which would give a certain
amount of a clot to the affair this is
the way things are managed in China
matters being in this state I had no
difficulty in prosecuting my botanical
researches amongst the hills these hills
are of the same bare in nature as those
formerly noticed and the natural
productions both in the animal and
vegetable kingdoms resemble those of
Hong Kong the island of nan al is about
15 miles long and of irregular breath in
some places about five miles the
principal town is situated on the
northern side having a very fine bay
swarming with fishing boats indeed the
whole of the coasts of this celebrated
country are studded with small sailing
boats belonging to fishermen who seemed
to be a most industrious and hardworking
race of men many of them in this island
go perfectly naked a practice which I
have not observed so common in any other
part of China shaman is a city of the
third-class seven or eight miles in
circumference and densely populated it
is one of the filthiest towns which I
have ever seen either in China or
elsewhere worse even the Shanghai and
dad is bad enough when I was there in
the hot autumnal months the streets
which are only a few feet wide were
thatched over with mats to protect the
inhabitants from the Sun at every corner
the itinerant cooks
Baker's were pursuing their avocations
and disposing of their delicacies and
the odors which met me at every point
were of the most disagreeable and
suffocating nature the suburbs are
rather cleaner than the city but as it
is not customary to use carriages of any
kind in this part of China the roads are
narrow it is from this place and the
adjacent coast that the best and most
enterprising Chinese sailors come many
are rather most of those who emigrate to
Manila Singapore and other parts of the
Straits are natives of Shyama and the
coasts of Fujian and hence this place
has generally been the headquarters of
the foreign junk trade during the war it
was remarked by our officers that the
merchants here showed more knowledge of
English customs than those at other
places did and all were acquainted with
our settlement at Singapore and spoke
highly of it since this port has been
thrown open several foreign merchants
have established themselves in the trade
although small when compared with that
of the more northern port of Shanghai is
still considerable Indian cotton cotton
twists long cloths of English and
American manufacturer and opium seemed
to be the principal articles of import
if we accept the Straits produce which
is chiefly brought in their own junks
since the arrival of the British consul
the opium ships have been removed from
the harbor and now lie just outside its
limits where the Chinese smugglers are
allowed to visit them with impunity
unfortunately for the trade at Xiamen
the exports of which we are most in need
I mean teas and silk are not so easily
brought to it as to the northern port of
Shanghai this of course will be much
against shaman but nevertheless it may
do a considerable portion of business in
other ways all sorts of coins are
current here dollars rupees English
shillings and sixpences Dutch coins and
others are all met with and pass current
by way native gold and bars sometimes
brought in considerable quantities to
pay for the cotton and opium and is I
believe considered of a very pure
quality during my stay here I was
continually traveling in the interior
going sometimes a considerable distance
up the rivers and then landing and
prosecuting my botanical researches and
the adjacent country
frequently in these excursions that came
unexpectedly upon small towns and
villages and generally walked into them
without the least obstruction on the
part of the natives indeed they seemed
in most cases highly delighted to see me
when the day was hot I would sit down
under the shade of a large banyan tree
generally found growing near the houses
and then the whole village men women and
children would gather round gazing at me
with curiosity not unmixed with fear as
if I were a being from another world
then one would begin to examine my
clothes
another would peep into my pockets while
several others were examining my
specimens the general opinions seemed to
be that I was a medical man and in a
very short time it was surrounded with
invalids of all classes and ages begging
assistance and advice the number of
persons who are diseased in a Chinese
village is really astonishing
many of them are nearly blind and a much
greater number in this part of the
country at least were affected with
cutaneous diseases of the most loathsome
description originating probably in
their peculiar diet and dirty habits the
island of gulangyu is situated opposite
the town of shaman and commands it at
the time of the war this island was
taken by the English troops and occupied
until the spring of 1845 when the
Chinese paid a part of the ransom money
and it was again placed in their hands
it is scarcely two miles long and of
irregular breadth and seems to have been
before the war the residents of some of
the principal inhabitants in this part
of the country most of the houses on the
island are in ruins but their remains
show what they were and prove the wealth
of their former residents I could not
look upon the ruined walls the pretty
fish ponds all overgrown with weeds and
filled up with rubbish the remains of
gardens ruinous as the houses without
wishing most sincerely that war and all
its attending calamities might long be
kept from my own peaceful happy home and
soon be unnecessary in every part of the
world according to all accounts the less
respectable part of the natives had done
more to make the houses of this island
have a ruinous appearance than our
troops during the war by pulling down
everything that they could possibly
carry away in disposed of I fear that
the more we know of China the more will
be dispelled the notions of its being a
healthy country which we had formed from
the experience of those who lived in
their shaded areas at Macau and can time
during my rambles on gulangyu I stumbled
on the tombstones of some Englishmen who
according to the inscriptions on them
had been interred upwards of 150 years
their graves had been preserved during
that long period by the Chinese who
seemed to pay great respect to the tombs
of the dead lately the stones had been
replaced and the tombs repaired by one
of our captains on the coast who for
this respectful and praised where the
act had acquired amongst his comrades
the name of old mortality that was
today's vintage passage those were
excerpts from the first chapters of
Robert fortunes wanderings through the
northern provinces of China the work was
published in 1847 and covered his first
visit to China in 1843 when this
best-seller hit the bookstores Queen
Victoria was already in the tenth year
of her glorious reign the next episode
I'll continue on with some of the more
noteworthy and poignant passages there's
a lot of him contained in his four books
the ones that follow we'll get into all
the details of his travels throughout
the tea producing regions of onwe judge
young and Fujin and before we get to
that we'll finish off fortunes
wanderings through a China that had just
been opened up to more for a trade and
men like Robert fortune were seeing this
country for the first time and vice
versa
seeing foreigners around Hong Kong and
Cayetana there's no big deal but
everywhere else up the China coast it
was a big deal because very few locals
had ever seen a westerner before well
these were some priceless eyewitness
observations about hong kong just as the
place was getting set up those who live
there or are familiar with hong kong
will know the places robert fortune
described stanley and happy valley for
example i love how he describes the
queen's road notice how the queen's road
used to run along
barbar now of course with land
reclamation Queens Road is much further
inland when he arrived in Hong Kong in
1843 the place was if you remember from
those history of Hong Kong CHP episodes
not looking like it was destined to
become a big success this was the period
right after the opium war when the
powers in London were lamenting that
rather than settling for a barren Rock
with hardly a house upon it they should
have been more forceful and gone for a
piece of Joe shine or nink ball but of
course we all know it turned out to be a
pretty halfway decent deal for Great
Britain and lasted a century and a half
fortunes contempt for the Chinese he was
a familiar refrain he wasn't the only
Lao why but moaning the difficulties of
getting what he wanted on the other hand
fortune and so many words also infers
you know some of his best friends are
Chinese but for a few of his asides and
remarks he was a big fan of imperialism
and quite appreciative of his white
privilege so he looks down his nose
quite a bit at the local Chinese but as
you'll see from his stories he was
fascinated with China he certainly
didn't have anything nice to say about
shaman quote one of the filthiest towns
which I have ever seen end quote wow
those are strong words seems he had a
thing or two about cleanliness and
hygiene of the places he visited one
other thing for all these works I've
selected I'm gonna pronounce all the
Chinese names of these places and
Mandarin for example I mentioned the
city of shaman well in his book fortune
refers to the place as a Moy in all
these books they don't use the pinyin
romanization system so in a lot of cases
I have to do a little detective work to
try and figure out what's the name of
the places they're talking about many of
them are not so obvious so hope you
don't mind
in some cases where I can't figure out
the place that's mentioned I just read
it like I see it
fortune doesn't have much to say about
all those who came before him and wrote
about China except that they didn't know
what they were talking about he seems
determined to write the definitive
Western sore
San China and the Chinese and in the
coming episodes there's plenty more of
his amusing interesting and probably a
fortunes estimation more authoritative
observations so that no stress eleccin
a for today and trust me when i say
there's plenty more where that came from
there's a new documentary that just came
out from french directors
charles-antoine de roof and jerome skin
la la guerre do tea or tea war it's a
beautiful movie filmed on location in
china tells robert fortunes story
it's from la compagnie de taxi bruce
just aired on art TV in france november
12 so you should be able to stream it
from there Vimeo channel or buy the DVD
soon I'll keep you all posted on that
your humble narrator has a few
appearances in this exquisite production
my French cinema debut La Gare duty from
charles antoine de rue and jerome scam
la well i hope you like that i know
we're advertising this as an hour-long
program in nothing less than its title
but coming up a little short today i'm
gonna have to make it up to you this is
Laszlo Montgomery signing off from an
undisclosed location in the City of
Angels begging you imploring you to come
back next time for another episode of a
China vintage hour and did I mention
this and other programs like the China
history podcast and Chinese sayings
podcasts are all available at tea cup
dot media that's tea cup dot media or
through your favorite podcast AB see you
next time